SOURCE: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Portugal.html
LICENSE: US Department of State — public information
FETCHED_BY: scripts/fetch_real_data.py
========================================================================

Portugal Travel Advisory | Travel.State.gov

    Skip to content

                         An official website of the United States government

                         Here&#39;s how you know

                         Here&#39;s how you know

                              Official websites use .gov

                                 A  .gov  website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

                              Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

                                 A lock ( ) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

                      Worldwide Caution:

  The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.

                     = 374px)"/>

                Menu

                    Careers

                    About

                    Contacts

                    Login

            Close Nav

                    Search

                 U.S. Passports

          Main Menu

             U.S. Passports: Home

                 Apply for a U.S. Passport

             Apply for a U.S. Passport: Home

      Adult Passport

                 Child&#39;s Passport (Under 18)

             Child&#39;s Passport (Under 18): Home

      Apply for a Child&#39;s Passport Under 16

      Apply for Your Passport as a 16-17 Year Old

      Prevent Parental Child Abduction

                 Get Your Passport Fast

             Get Your Passport Fast: Home

      Make an Appointment at a Passport Agency

      Life-or-Death Emergencies

      Using a Courier Company

                 Passport Application Help

             Passport Application Help: Home

      Passport Forms

      Passport Fees

      Get Your Processing Time

      Photo ID Requirements

      Citizenship Evidence

      Design and Security

      Compare a Passport Card and Book

      Passport Photos

      Where to Apply

                 Unique Passport Needs

             Unique Passport Needs: Home

      Apply as a Person with a Disability

      Apply for a Second Passport Book

      Sex Markers in Passports

                 After You Apply for Your Passport

             After You Apply for Your Passport: Home

      Check Your Application Status

      Respond to a Letter or Email

      After You Get Your New Passport

      Get Copies of Passport Records

      Expedited Service Fee Refund

                 Renew or Replace a Passport

             Renew or Replace a Passport: Home

      Renew by Mail

      Renew from Canada

      Report Your Passport Lost or Stolen

      Replace a Passport After a Disaster

      Replace a Limited-Validity Passport

                 Renew Online

             Renew Online: Home

      Uploading a Digital Photo

      Change or Correct a Passport

                 Contact and Support

             Contact and Support: Home

      Frequently Asked Questions

      Contact U.S. Passports

      Share Your Feedback

      Passport Surveys and Renewal Reminders

      Passport Resources

                 Legal Matters

             Legal Matters: Home

      Child Support Debt

      Passports and International Megan&#39;s Law

      Get a Passport On or After Probation or Parole

      Passports and Unpaid Federal Taxes

      Passport Information for Judges and Lawyers

      Passport Information for Law Enforcement

                 International Travel

          Main Menu

             International Travel: Home

                 Travel Advisories

             Travel Advisories: Home

      STEP - Smart Traveler Enrollment Program

                 Global Events Affecting International Travel

             Global Events Affecting International Travel: Home

      Middle East

      Terrorism

      Worldwide Caution

      High-Risk Areas

      Crime

      Scams

                 Planning Your Travel

             Planning Your Travel: Home

      International Travel Checklist

                 International Travel Guidance

             International Travel Guidance: Home

      DHS Trusted Traveler Programs

      Driving and Transportation Safety Abroad

      Information for Travel Industry

      Laws Abroad

      Lodging Safety

      Medicine and Health

      Travel Insurance

      U.S. Travelers in Europe

      Communication Abroad

                 Personal Travel Needs

             Personal Travel Needs: Home

      Accessibility Needs

      Age 65+ Travelers

      Dual Nationality

      Gay and Lesbian Travelers

      Pets

      Race and Ethnicity Travel Safety

      Travel with Minors

      Women Travelers

                 Safety Tips for Activities

             Safety Tips for Activities: Home

      Hajj and Umrah Pilgrimage Travelers

      Adventure Travelers

      Boating Safety and Piracy

      Business Travel and Work Abroad

      Cruise Ships

      Faith-Based Travel

      Firearms

      Journalists

      Studying Abroad

      Volunteering Abroad

      Kora Pilgrimage to Mount Kailash

                 Living Abroad Resources

             Living Abroad Resources: Home

      American Citizens Services Abroad

      Birth

      Marriage

      Divorce

      Death

      Retirement

      Federal Benefits and Obligations

      Criminal Records Checks

      Voting from Abroad

                 Help Abroad

             Help Abroad: Home

      Crisis Response and Evacuations

      Lost or Stolen Passport Abroad

      Victims of Crime

      Arrest or Detention Abroad

      Missing U.S. Citizens Abroad

      Emergency Financial Assistance

      U.S. Visas

      Intercountry Adoption

      Intercountry Parental Child Abduction

      Replace or Certify Documents

                    Careers

                    About

                    Contacts

                    Login

            Close Nav

                                 Home

                                 International Travel

                                 Travel Advisories

                             Portugal

Portugal

                              Review the latest State Department Travel Advisory about Portugal. You can plan for safe travel by following the entry and exit requirements, reviewing local laws, and other travel guidance from the U.S. embassy or consulate.

                             Visit  pt.usembassy.gov

                             Learn more about U.S. and Portugal relations at  State.gov

             Travel advisory levels

                    Learn more about
                    Travel Advisory  levels

             Exercise normal precautions

             Exercise increased caution

             Reconsider travel

             Do not travel

            Travel advisory - Portugese Republic

                Level 1 - Exercise normal precautions

                Date issued: December 23, 2025 -
                 advisory history

        Exercise normal precautions

      in  Portugal .

Advisory summary

-  Portugal is generally a safe destination for travelers. Travelers should remain vigilant against petty theft, particularly in crowded tourist areas and on public transportation. 

-  Review our  travel guidance  for Portugal  to learn how to prepare for a safe trip.

                       If you decide to travel to Portugal:  

-  U.S. citizens are encouraged to monitor local news. 

-  Follow the guidance of Portuguese authorities.

-  U.S. citizens should always exercise caution when traveling abroad. 

-  Enroll in the  Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)  to get important updates and alerts from the U.S. embassy or consulate. Enrolling helps the U.S. embassy or consulate contact you or your emergency contact in an emergency.  

-  Review the   Country Security Report  .  

-  Visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website for the   latest Travel Health Information   for Portugal. 

-  Whether you’re a first time or frequent traveler, use the  International Travel Checklist .

-  We highly recommend that you buy travel insurance before you travel. Check with your  travel insurance provider  about evacuation assistance, medical insurance, and trip cancelation coverage.

             Scroll to review full advisory

             Travel advisory levels

                    Learn more about
                    Travel Advisory  levels

             Exercise normal precautions

             Exercise increased caution

             Reconsider travel

             Do not travel

            Explore the full map

About Portugal

                 Portugal is located in Europe, in the Northern Hemisphere. It has maritime borders with the Atlantic Ocean. It also shares a land border with Spain. Portugal has 2 autonomous regions: the Azores and Madeira.

 Portugal is slightly smaller than the state of Indiana. There are two  time zones, Western European Time (WET) on the mainland and Madeira, and Azores Standard Time in the Azores (AZOT). It observes daylight saving time, switching to Western European Summer Time (WEST) and Azores Summer Time (AZOST) during the summer months. Portugal is 5 hours ahead of Washington, D.C. during Eastern Standard Time (EST) and the Azores are 4 hours ahead of Washington, D.C.

            Travel requirements

Tourist visa requirements

- No visa is required for 90 days or less.

Vaccinations

- No vaccinations are required.

- Stay up to date on all   vaccinations   recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Valid passport requirements

- Must have 3 months validity beyond your date of departure.

- 2 blank pages required for entry.

Currency on entry and exit

-  Entry maximum:  €10,000 or equivalent in USD

-  Exit maximum:  €10,000 or equivalent in USD 

Tips from the U.S. embassy

- Most cities in Portugal ban drinking alcohol in the street, except at registered cafes and bars.

- It is illegal to bring marijuana, cannabis, or CBD products and derivatives into Portugal. Fines range from €1,000 - €10,000. You may also be arrested and detained for long periods of time.

- The possession or use of pepper spray is not permitted in Portugal. You may face fines or other legal penalties.

                Help for U.S. citizens

                U.S. Embassy Lisbon

                U.S. Embassy Lisbon

                U.S. Embassy Lisbon

                 Av. das Forças Armadas, Sete-Rios

1600-081 Lisbon

Portugal

                          Main telephone:      +351-21-770-2122

                          Emergency after-hours:      +351-21-770-2122  or  +351-21-727-3300

                          Email:       conslisbon@state.gov

                          Fax:       +351-21-727-2354

                          Website:    https://pt.usembassy.gov/

                          Online Navigator:   U.S. Citizens Services Assistance

            Save contact to device

                  EMBASSY UPDATE

             Previous messages

                 Review full alert

             Message failed to load

             We are unable to load the message. Visit the main  U.S. embassy or consulate website  for updates.

     Get embassy updates right to your inbox

            Review how STEP works

Travel guidance for Portugal

        Explore our travel guidance topics to prepare for your trip abroad.

                 Select a topic

                         Entry, exit, and visa requirements

                         Safety and security

                         Local laws and customs

                         Health

                         Transportation

                         Weather and natural disasters

                         U.S. citizens living abroad

                         Embassies and consulates

Entry, exit, and visa requirements

Helpful resources 

-   U.S. Embassy &amp; Consulate in Portugal

-  Dual Nationality

-  U.S. Travelers in Europe

-   Portuguese Immigration Service (SEF)

Declaration of entry

 U.S. citizens entering Portugal from another EU Member State, who do not pass through an airport or immigration control, must make a declaration of entry with the Public Security Police (PSP) or the National Republican Guard (GNR) within 3 working days.  

 The rule does not apply to citizens:

- Who immediately after entering Portugal, stay in hotels or other equivalent accommodation.

- Who are Portugal residents or authorized to stay for a period longer than 6 months.

- Who are citizens of a European Union country.

- For more information visit the   official website    of the Portuguese Immigration Services.

Traveling with children

- Always bring a copy of each child’s birth certificate or other evidence of your legal relationship to each child.

- Under Portuguese Immigration law, foreign minors under 18 years of age entering or exiting Portugal must possess an authorization letter of parental consent to travel, if travelling with adults other than their parent(s) or legal guardian.

- The document must be signed and dated, with the signature(s) certified by a notary.

- The letter of parental consent to travel must include the dates and reason for travel and the details about the adult responsible for the child. More information   here  .

- If you have concerns that your child may be abducted abroad by their other parent or guardian, review our information on how to  prevent an international parental child abduction . You can also review our  information on Parental Child Abduction  in Portugal.

- Review our information on  Traveling with Minors .

- Find additional information on traveling with minors on the   Portuguese Immigration Service   webpage.

HIV and AIDS restrictions

 The U.S. Department of State is unaware of any HIV and AIDS entry restrictions for visitors or foreign residents of Portugal.  

Currency

- The Euro (€) is the official currency of Portugal.

- Credit cards are widely accepted at most establishments.  However, it is best to carry some cash for smaller businesses or rural areas where card payments may not be available.

- Portugal has ATMs that accept U.S.-issued bankcards. ATMs are generally reliable, but fees may apply depending on your bank's policies. Check with your bank regarding international withdrawal fees before traveling.

Traveling through Europe

- If you are planning to visit or travel through Europe, be familiar with the requirements of the Schengen Borders Agreement. It allows you to move freely within several countries without border checks. 

- Your passport should be valid for at least 3 months beyond your period of stay if you plan on transiting a Schengen country. You will need sufficient proof of funds and a return plane ticket.  

- Review our information for  U.S. Travelers in Europe .

Entry into Portugal with pets

- You must contact your airline company for information about all pet requirements for commercial air transport. These requirements may change without notice, so check before your travel date.

- Portuguese authorities regulate the entry and exit of animals into Portugal. Review   Portugal’s pet travel information.   Check the official   Government of Portugal website   for the most up to date guidelines before travelling with your pet.

- The U.S. Department of Agriculture maintains information for   Pet Travel  . 

Safety and security

Emergency phone numbers

 Local authorities are responsible for investigating and prosecuting crimes and providing emergency services.

-    Dial 112    for police and ambulance services.

-    Dial 800-202-148    for toll-free domestic violence hotline.

Terrorism

  Terrorists and their supporters may target U.S. citizens abroad. Credible   information indicates terrorist groups continue plotting possible near-term attacks in Europe. All European countries, including Portugal, remain potentially vulnerable to attacks from transnational terrorist organizations. Stay vigilant regarding your personal security.

  Terrorists may target:

- Large public events (sporting contests, political rallies, demonstrations, holiday events, celebratory gatherings, etc.)

- Popular hotels, clubs, and restaurants

- Places of worship

- Schools

- Parks

- Shopping malls and markets

- Public transportation (subways, buses, trains, and commercial flights)

Crime

- Crimes of opportunity are common. They include pickpocketing and purse snatching. These crimes tend to occur at popular tourist sites, restaurants, and on public transportation.

- Pickpockets take advantage of crowds getting on and off all forms of public transportation. They use the busy crowds as a distraction.

- Avoid standing near the doors on public transportation.  Thieves will often strike just as the train or bus doors open. They then dash onto the platform and disappear into the crowd.

- Secure your passport and identity documents when traveling throughout Portugal. Foreigners who arrive in Portugal without a valid passport will not be permitted to enter and will be returned to their point of origin. The U.S. embassy cannot intercede with the Portuguese Immigration authorities to allow U.S. citizens to enter without valid entry travel documents.

- Be aware of your surroundings and take personal security measures to stay safe. Reports of thefts of backpacks, electronics and luggage are increasing. Do not leave valuables in rental cars, especially those with stickers identifying the vehicle as a rental car. Tourists are frequent victims of petty crime and car break-ins.

 Reports of thefts from rental homes and online rental apartments have increased.  Secure belongings and keep doors and windows locked at all times, even when you are inside or sleeping. Take extra care if the room or building is easily accessed from the street or other places.

- Avoid using ATMs in remote or poorly lit areas. Use the buddy system and indoor ATMs in banks when possible.

- Leave extra cash, credit cards, and personal documents at home or in a hotel safe.

- Illicit drug transactions increase at night. Travelers may be approached by drug dealers in the downtown area of Lisbon, especially near the bars and restaurants. Some travelers have reported that criminals used drugs to assault or rob them. Use caution when accepting open drinks at bars or clubs. Do not leave your drinks unattended.

- Always use a taxi from the queue or kiosk. Do not accept offers from a driver or agent who walks up to you and offers a ride. If you have called a ride sharing service such as Uber, confirm that the car information in the app matches the vehicle you are entering.

- Do not leave personal items or valuables unattended while at the beach.

Scams

- Follow the Department of State guidelines to protect yourself from  scams .

- If you are a victim of a scam, learn how   the FBI can help  .  

 Financial scams and Internet romance scams are common throughout the world. Be careful of anyone asking for money, especially those who start a &quot;romantic&quot; relationship online or claim local authorities want money. Scams often begin through online posts, emails, or letters. Scammers pretend to be U.S. citizens in need of help.

 Common scams include:

- False taxis and “unofficial” taxi drivers who approach you unsolicited

- People claiming to be detained or hospitalized abroad

- Romance and online dating

- Money transfers

- Grandparent and relative targeting

- Free trip or luggage

- Inheritance notices

 If using dating apps or websites in Portugal please be aware: 

- Criminals may use dating apps to target potential victims for robbery or assault.

- Let your friends and family know where you are and consider sharing your location on your phone. 

- If you agree to meet, meet in a popular public place.

- Tell your family or friends all the details about the person you are meeting and how you met them (which app).

- Set up and talk using a video call before agreeing to meet in person. 

- Avoid locations where you can be isolated, like hotel rooms, private apartments or houses.

- Never leave food or drinks unattended at a bar or restaurant.

- Observe the preparation of your food or drink order when possible.

- Refuse offers of food or drinks from strangers.

- Have a communication plan with friends or family. Send updates to them on an agreed schedule. 

Victims of crime

 Local authorities are responsible for investigating and prosecuting crimes.

-    Dial 112    to report crimes to the local police (National Emergency Number)

-    Dial +351-21-770-2122    to contact the U.S. embassy.

-   Dial +351-21-727-3300   for the U.S. embassy emergency after-hours line.

-    Dial 144    for social welfare emergencies such as domestic violence or child abuse. English-speaking operators are available.

 U.S. citizen victims of sexual assault should seek medical attention if needed. You are encouraged to contact the U.S. embassy for help.

 Review our information for  Victims of Crime . 

 The U.S. embassy or consulate can:

- Replace a stolen or lost passport.

- Help you find medical care. 

- Assist you in how to report a crime to the police.

- Contact relatives or friends with your written consent.

- Provide general information regarding the criminal justice system. 

- Provide a list of local attorneys. We do not endorse or recommend any specific attorneys.

- Provide information on victim’s compensation programs in the United States.

- Provide an emergency loan for repatriation to the United States or limited medical support in cases of need.

- Help you find accommodation and options to travel home.

- The Portuguese Program for victims of crime is called   APAV - Victims Assistance Association in Portugal  .

 The U.S. Embassy cannot:

- Investigate crimes

- Provide legal advice

- Represent you in Portuguese court

- Serve as official interpreters or translators

- Pay legal, medical, or any other fees or debts on your behalf

Sexual assault and domestic violence

- U.S. citizen victims of sexual assault and domestic violence are encouraged to contact the  U.S. Embassy in Lisbon  and local law enforcement for assistance. Local law enforcement in Portugal is generally reliable and responsive in providing victim support and addressing domestic violence cases.

-    Dial 144    in social welfare emergencies such as domestic violence or child abuse. English-speaking operators are available.

Technology use abroad

 Mobile devices are vulnerable to compromise, theft, and damage anywhere in the world. Follow these safe practices:

- Update all software (operating system and apps) before leaving the United States.

- Use reputable, U.S.-based VPN or VoIP applications.

- Don’t connect to public Wi-Fi networks.

- Research the safety of routes recommended by GPS. The fastest route is not always the safest.

- Be cautious using dating apps abroad. Scammers often target U.S. citizens.

Drones

- Drone technology is allowed in Portugal. However, use must follow safety rules and be registered to ensure airspace control and the protection of people.

- For more information visit   the Portuguese Civil Aviation Authority  .

Tourism safety

 The tourism industry is regulated:

- Rules and safety inspections are regularly enforced. 

- Dangerous areas and activities are marked with signs.

- Trained and certified staff are usually there to help with organized activities.

- If you get injured, you can usually get medical help locally.

- In rural areas, it might take longer for medical help to arrive and help.

- U.S. citizens are encouraged to have medical evacuation insurance. 

- Review our information on  Travel Insurance .  

Adventure travel

- U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tips for  Adventure Travel .

Local laws and customs

Criminal penalties

- U.S. citizens must follow local laws. If you break local laws, even by mistake, you could be deported, arrested, or imprisoned.

- You may be prosecuted in the United States for  crimes committed abroad  regardless of the local law. Review the information provided by the  U.S.  Department of Justice   about crimes against minors abroad.

- Before you start a business or a profession in Portugal seek information from the local authorities about what permits or licenses are required.  

Arrest notification

 If you are  arrested or detained , ask officials to notify the U.S. embassy or consulate immediately. 

Counterfeit and pirated goods

 Counterfeit and pirated goods are common in many destinations.

- They may be illegal according to local laws.

- Counterfeit and pirated goods may pose significant risks to consumer health and safety. 

- You may be subject to fines or have to surrender counterfeit and pirated goods to authorities if you bring them back to the United States. 

 Learn more about U.S. restrictions on counterfeit and pirated goods:

-   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

-   U.S. Department of Justice    

Faith-based travelers

 Faith based travel includes pilgrimages, service projects, and mission work. Prepare for your travel using these resources: 

-  Faith-Based Travel

-  Volunteering Abroad

-  International Religious Freedom Reports

Gay and lesbian travelers

- There are no legal restrictions on consensual same-sex sexual relations, the provision of information or services to persons on the basis of real or perceived sexual orientation, or the organization of events focused on sexual orientation in Portugal. 

- Review our information for  Gay and Lesbian Travelers .

Travelers with disabilities or accessibility needs

- The law in Portugal prohibits discrimination against people with physical, sensory, psychosocial, intellectual, or mental disabilities. The law is enforced, and Portugal has made significant efforts to improve accessibility and inclusion for individuals with disabilities.

- Expect accessibility to be limited in public transportation, lodging, communication and information, and general infrastructure in rural areas or older parts of cities, where historical buildings and narrow streets may pose challenges.

- Cultural norms and general public sentiment around disability in Portugal are generally positive, with the public often willing to assist individuals with disabilities. However, travelers may need to ask for help explicitly, as some locals may not assume assistance is needed unless requested.

- General information on accessibility and accommodations is available on the website of the   Portuguese Tourism Board  .

- Review our information on  Accessibility Needs .

Students

- Review our information on  Studying Abroad .  

Women travelers 

- Review our information for  Women Travelers .

- Review our information for  Victims of Crime .

Human rights

 Portugal is generally a safe and welcoming country with strong protections for human rights and fundamental freedoms, according to the U.S. State Department’s recent annual reports on human rights.  Visitors are unlikely to encounter human rights issues but should remain aware of ongoing social debates and occasional protests related to policing, minority rights, and labor conditions. 

- Review the Department of State’s  Human Rights Report  for Portugal prior to traveling.

Health

Health resources

-   CDC Portugal Traveler Information   provides destination specific information on prevalent diseases and vaccination recommendations.

-   CDC Medical Tourism information

-   World Health Organization

-  Medicine and Health

-  Travel Insurance

Emergency phone numbers

-   Dial 112   for emergency medical services and ask for medical assistance. English speaking operators are available. You may say: “Tenho uma urgencia medica” if you cannot reach one quickly.

Ambulance services

- Ambulance services are   widely available. However, the training and response time of emergency responders may be inadequate outside major cities. 

Medical payments and insurance

 Make sure you know if your health insurance plan includes any medical expenses coverage abroad.  Most U.S. plans do not.

- The U.S. government does not pay medical bills.

- U.S. Medicare and Medicaid do not cover expenses or bills abroad.

- Most hospitals and doctors abroad do not accept U.S. health insurance.

- Medical care is not free in Portugal. If you require medical attention, you will incur expenses, even if you are treated in a public healthcare facility.

- Credit card payment is not always available.

- Private and some public hospitals often need payment up front or proof of good insurance before providing treatment or admitting a patient. 

- Make sure you know if your health insurance plan provides coverage abroad or reimbursement of payments. The CDC provides more information on  types of insurance .

- We strongly recommend  supplemental insurance  to cover medical evacuation.

Vaccinations

 Stay up to date with the vaccines recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

-   CDC Travelers’ Health

-   World Health Organization Travel Advice

Healthcare facilities

- Healthcare facilities are available throughout Portugal. It may be harder to find adequate health care in rural areas.

- The U.S. embassy maintains a   list of doctors and hospitals  . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic.

- Medical staff may speak little or no English.

- Patients must cover all costs for transfer to or between hospitals.

- Psychological and psychiatric services may be limited, even in larger cities.

Medical tourism and elective surgery

- Medical tourism is a fast-growing industry. If you want healthcare abroad, you need to know that their medical systems are different from the United States. They don't follow the same rules. Before you travel for medical reasons, talk to your doctor.

- Visit the   CDC’s Medical Tourism website   for information on medical tourism. Find out about the risks of medical tourism and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Portugal.

- We strongly recommend  supplemental insurance  to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. 

- Your legal options in case of malpractice may be limited in Portugal.   

Prescription medications

- Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.

- Check with the   Portugal Health Ministry   to ensure the medication is legal in Portugal.

- Portuguese pharmacies usually have similar medicines, but they might have different brand names, dosages, or need a prescription from a local doctor.

- You cannot mail prescription medicines from the U.S. to Portugal. Customs will confiscate them.

 U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have rules for bringing medication back into the United States.  If you buy medications abroad, the medications must meet CBP’s and the FDA’s requirements to bring them back legally.

 The medications must also be for personal use and approved for use in the United States.

 For more information:

-   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

-   Food and Drug Administration

Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy (ART)

- If you are considering traveling to Portugal to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please review our information on  ART and Surrogacy Abroad .

- Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Portugal. The Government of Portugal maintains a   website   with more detailed information.

- If you decide to pursue parenthood in Portugal via ART with a surrogate, consider hiring a reputable local attorney and be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s birth with local authorities and/or citizenship status. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk legal consequences.  

Water quality and food safety

- Tap water is generally safe to drink and use in cooking.

-  Bottled water and beverages are used extensively and are both safe and palatable.

Air quality

 Air pollution can be a significant problem in many destinations abroad.

- Check   NASA’s Air Quality Forecast  . It uses Artificial Intelligence (AI), historical data, and global pollution modeling to generate a 3-day forecast of expected air quality in Portugal.

- For information about common air pollutants, check the   CDC’s Air Quality page  .

- For information about the U.S. Air Quality Index and health guidance, check out the   EPA’s AirNow  .

- For general health information, visit the  Medicine and Health  page.

- Visit the   Government of Portugal’s website   for real-time information on air quality.

Transportation

Road conditions and safety

- Portugal has many well-built roads, but the road fatality rate is still high.

- Be cautious of aggressive drivers and high speeds.

- Drive safely, follow speed limits, and stay alert.

- Adequate traffic signage and basic road safety standards exist in Portugal and are enforced.  

- Emergency services and roadside assistance are available. But speed and availability of services may vary depending on the area of service.   

- You must have an emergency kit in your car that includes several safety items. Please check your rental car for this kit.  

- If you are traveling in rural areas with limited roadside assistance, consider carrying spare tires, fuel, extra food and water, and tools.    

Traffic laws 

- Speeding, driving under the influence, and using a phone while driving are illegal. Fines are high.

- Seatbelts are required for all passengers. Small children must use a safety seat in the back with seatbelts fastened.

- If you are in a traffic accident, the Portuguese law requires you to leave your vehicle where it is and immediately call the police at   112  .

- Police can issue on-the-spot fines and accept payment with portable machines.

- You can drive in Portugal with a U.S. driver’s license for up to 6 months. For an international driving permit, contact AAA or the National Auto Club.

- Many   highways require a toll for use  .

Taxis and ride-shares

- Taxis and prominent ride-sharing services such as Uber are regulated, generally safe and a reliable means of transportation. Exercise normal levels of caution as you would in the United States.

- Refer to the crime section of this page to alert yourself to other threats related to taxis and ride-sharing services.

-  Bus service is also reliable.

Public and commercial transportation

- In the Azores, driving can be challenging due to narrow cobblestone streets, blind curves, blind corners, and livestock on country roads.

- Public buses are inexpensive. Bus services begin at 7 a.m. and generally operate until 8 p.m., depending on the destination.

- Visit Portugal’s national tourist office website and   the national authority responsible for road safety  .

- Review our information on  Driving and Transportation Safety Abroad . 

Aviation safety oversight

 The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has found that Portugal’s Civil Aviation Authority meets international standards for aviation safety oversight. 

-   FAA's website   includes more information on its assessment program.

Maritime travel

 Mariners and passengers planning travel to Portugal should check the following: 

-   U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Advisories

-   MARAD Active Maritime Alerts

-   Maritime Safety Office Navigational Warnings

Weather and natural disasters

Weather conditions

-  Wildfires  – The highest risk is during the hot, dry summer months of June to September. Wildfires are common in interior and forested regions. Strong winds and prolonged dry periods during this time can lead to large-scale fires.

-  Flooding  – Most common heavy rain events are in the autumn and winter months from October to February. Intense storms can cause flash floods, river overflows, and urban flooding.

-  Heat waves and extreme temperatures  –  Common in July and August, particularly in central and northeastern areas. These prolonged high temperatures cause health risks and increase the likelihood and intensity of wildfires.

U.S. citizens living abroad

Living Abroad resources

 If you  live outside the United States  for a long time, you or your family may experience various life events, wish to exercise U.S. citizenship rights, or need to meet U.S. legal obligations while abroad.

- Learn how to prepare for  voting in U.S. elections , the  birth of a child , or getting  married .

- Ensure you have a plan for  healthcare and medical insurance  abroad.

- Even abroad, you still have certain  obligations  such as paying your U.S. taxes or registering for military selective service.

- Review information on  federal benefits , such as Social Security and Veterans Affairs benefits.

Embassies and consulates

        U.S. Embassy Lisbon

         Av. das Forças Armadas, Sete-Rios

1600-081 Lisbon

Portugal

          Main telephone:     +351-21-770-2122

          Emergency after-hours:     +351-21-770-2122  or  +351-21-727-3300

          Email:     conslisbon@state.gov

          Fax:     +351-21-727-2354

          Website:    https://pt.usembassy.gov/

          Online Navigator:   U.S. Citizens Services Assistance

        U.S. Consulate Ponta Delgada

         Sao Miguel Island, Azores

Avenida Principe do Monaco, 6-2F

Ponta Delgada, Portugal

          Main telephone:     +351-296-308-330

          Emergency after-hours:    U.S. citizens should call the U.S. Embassy in Lisbon at  +351-21-727-3300  .   

Ask to be transferred to the officer on duty in the Azores.

          Email:     ConsPontaDelgada@state.gov

          Website:    https://pt.usembassy.gov/u-s-consulate-ponta-delgada/

          Online Navigator:   U.S. Citizens Services Assistance

Travel Advisory History

                  December 23, 2025: Level 1 - Exercise normal precautions

                         There were no changes to the advisory level or risk indicators. Advisory summary was updated. 

                  March 03, 2025: Level 1 - Exercise normal precautions

                         Reissued after periodic review with minor edits.

Learn about another destination

     Select your destination:

                     Afghanistan

                     Albania

                     Algeria

                     Andorra

                     Angola

                     Anguilla

                     Antarctica

                     Antigua and Barbuda

                     Argentina

                     Armenia

                     Aruba

                     Australia

                     Austria

                     Azerbaijan

                     Bahamas

                     Bahrain

                     Bangladesh

                     Barbados

                     Belarus

                     Belgium

                     Belize

                     Benin

                     Bermuda

                     Bhutan

                     Bolivia

                     Bonaire

                     Bonaire, Sint Eustatius, and Saba

                     Bosnia and Herzegovina

                     Botswana

                     Brazil

                     British Virgin Islands

                     Brunei

                     Bulgaria

                     Burkina Faso

                     Burma (Myanmar)

                     Burundi

                     Cabo Verde

                     Cambodia

                     Cameroon

                     Canada

                     Cayman Islands

                     Central African Republic

                     Chad

                     Chile

                     China

                     Colombia

                     Comoros

                     Costa Rica

                     Croatia

                     Cuba

                     Curaçao

                     Cyprus

                     Czechia

                     Côte d&#39;Ivoire (Ivory-Coast)

                     Democratic Republic of the Congo (D.R.C.)

                     Denmark

                     Djibouti

                     Dominica

                     Dominican Republic

                     Ecuador

                     Egypt

                     El Salvador

                     Equatorial Guinea

                     Eritrea

                     Estonia

                     Eswatini (Swaziland)

                     Ethiopia

                     Falkland Islands

                     Federated States of Micronesia

                     Fiji

                     Finland

                     France

                     French Guiana

                     French Polynesia

                     French West Indies

                     Gabon

                     Georgia

                     Germany

                     Ghana

                     Gibraltar

                     Greece

                     Greenland

                     Grenada

                     Guadeloupe (French West Indies)

                     Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint Martin, and Saint Barthélemy (French West Indies)

                     Guatemala

                     Guinea

                     Guinea-Bissau

                     Guyana

                     Haiti

                     Honduras

                     Hong Kong

                     Hungary

                     Iceland

                     India

                     Indonesia

                     Iran

                     Iraq

                     Ireland

                     Isle of Man

                     Israel, The West Bank and Gaza

                     Italy

                     Jamaica

                     Japan

                     Jerusalem

                     Jordan

                     Kazakhstan

                     Kenya

                     Kiribati

                     Kosovo

                     Kuwait

                     Laos

                     Latvia

                     Lebanon

                     Lesotho

                     Liberia

                     Libya

                     Liechtenstein

                     Lithuania

                     Luxembourg

                     Macau

                     Madagascar

                     Malawi

                     Malaysia

                     Maldives

                     Mali

                     Malta

                     Marshall Islands

                     Martinique (French West Indies)

                     Mauritania

                     Mauritius

                     Mexico

                     Moldova

                     Monaco

                     Mongolia

                     Montenegro

                     Montserrat

                     Morocco

                     Mozambique

                     Namibia

                     Nauru

                     Nepal

                     Netherlands

                     New Caledonia

                     New Zealand

                     Nicaragua

                     Niger

                     Nigeria

                     North Korea (Democratic People&#39;s Republic of Korea)

                     Norway

                     Oman

                     Pakistan

                     Palau

                     Panama

                     Papua New Guinea

                     Paraguay

                     Peru

                     Philippines

                     Poland

                     Portugal

                     Qatar

                     Republic of North Macedonia

                     Republic of the Congo

                     Romania

                     Russia

                     Rwanda

                     Saba

                     Saint Barthélemy (French West Indies)

                     Saint Kitts and Nevis

                     Saint Lucia

                     Saint Martin (French West Indies)

                     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

                     Samoa

                     San Marino

                     Sao Tome and Principe

                     Saudi Arabia

                     Senegal

                     Serbia

                     Seychelles

                     Sierra Leone

                     Singapore

                     Sint Eustatius

                     Sint Maarten

                     Slovakia

                     Slovenia

                     Solomon Islands

                     Somalia

                     South Africa

                     South Korea

                     South Sudan

                     Spain

                     Sri Lanka

                     Sudan

                     Suriname

                     Sweden

                     Switzerland

                     Syria

                     Taiwan

                     Tajikistan

                     Tanzania

                     Thailand

                     The Gambia

                     The Kyrgyz Republic

                     Timor-Leste

                     Togo

                     Tonga

                     Trinidad and Tobago

                     Tunisia

                     Turkey

                     Turkmenistan

                     Turks and Caicos Islands

                     Tuvalu

                     Uganda

                     Ukraine

                     United Arab Emirates

                     United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

                     Uruguay

                     Uzbekistan

                     Vanuatu

                     Vatican City (Holy See)

                     Venezuela

                     Vietnam

                     Yemen

                     Zambia

                     Zimbabwe

            Go

     Invalid Input

     Get embassy updates right to your inbox

            Review how STEP works

             Return to top

                     Last Updated: December 11, 2025

                     Owned by Overseas Citizens Services

Travel.State.Gov Services

                                                         U.S. Passports

                                                         U.S. Visas

                                                         International Travel

                                                         Intercountry Adoption

                                                         International Parental Child Abduction

                                                         Replace or Certify Documents

Information

                                                         About

                                                         Careers

                                                         Newsroom

                                                         Travel Advisories

                                                         Find U.S. Embassies and Consulates

                                                         Glossary

Legal Resources

                                                         Legal Information

                                                         Info for U.S. Law Enforcement

                                                         Reports and Statistics

Login

                                                         MyTravelGov Login

                 The State Department provides external links solely for our readers' information and convenience.  Disclaimer Details

                                     = 374px)"/>

                                Follow Us

                                         Facebook (opens in a new tab)

                                         Instagram (opens in a new tab)

                                         X (opens in a new tab)

                                         YouTube (opens in a new tab)

                                         RSS (opens in a new tab)

                    An official website of the
                     Department of State - Bureau of Consular Affairs

                        About Department of State

                        Accessibility Support

                        Copyright and Disclaimer

                        FOIA Requests

                        No FEAR Act Data

                        Office of the Inspector General

                        Performance reports

                        Privacy Policy

                Looking for U.S. government information and services?

                 USA.gov
                 USA.gov/espanol
                 GSA.gov
